Hello everybody and welcome to this lecture.
Where we are going to learn about converting objects data types.
So at the moment we have our curve that goes around our pin that we've got.
If you turn off the pin reference I'm just going to hide it by clicking on the eye.
We see that we've got our outline.
But if you were very carefully looking at the outliner over here on the right you'll see that not only
do we have a pin profile there is a curve, We also have a mesh pin profile.
And if I toggle those on and off you see if I just d select everything there that they are both one
and the same which is really useful.
We've now got two types of data that are identical to one another.
And the important thing is there we can do different types of operations depending on what the data
type originally was.
So let's go find out some more.
OK so let's start off here by selecting our pin profile I'm going to hide my pin reference for the moment
and oh as I'm zooming in here you can see I've run out of Zoom I'm actually trying to zoom in and zoom
in and zoom in.
I just can't zoom in any further.
So I'm going to select my objects and then go to view and frame selected.
Now that's number pad full stop.
Probably mentioned this in the past.
It's so useful I did want to mention it again.
And when you do that it basically centers the view around whatever objects you have selected and then
the zoom will works so much better than it did before.
Okay.
So now that we have this object selected it's a curve object.
We do need to be an object mode we're not editing it but what we do need to do is go to the objects
menu and go down to where it says convert.
Now I believe this used to have a really convoluted.
I think it was control shift alt and C to convert but that doesn't exist at the moment and we've got
two options here.
We convert to a curve from a mesh or a text object or we can convert to a mesh from a curve, a meta,
surface or a text object.
And this is really useful it shows here that you can convert more when we go into a mesh objects then
you can go into a curve.
And since we're going to be going from a curve to a mesh object that also means potentially we can convert
it back later on but I'll show you a way that we can mitigate that just in case you lose some of the
information.
So we want to convert to a mesh so we go ahead and click that.
Now before we do anything else we don't want to lose the operator panel because I want to show you a
couple of things.
So let's open up the operator panel and it doesn't have much on here of course it's got two options
that we have previously but this one here keep original.
Now the moment is taken that curve objects and converted it to a mesh object essentially deleting the
curve object from existence.
However this keep original if I put a tick in it we can see in the outline.
It will keep an original copy of the curve that was there.
That's really important because the curve may contain information that we don't want to lose.
And you don't have to do that it's just recommended at this point what you're learning.
Hold on to the original curve data unless you're absolutely sure.
Right.
I'm done with that.
That's bin it.
I'm going to keep it there so I can refer to it later that's going to be really really useful.
Now I'm gonna hide that out of the way I'm not interested in seeing the curve data anymore.
I just want my mesh objects and now I can confirm it's a mesh object because when I go into edit mode
we have our standard editing tools for a mesh object so we can select everything here and we can extrude
out or do other things with it.
So that's one way of profile modelling a surface something like an architrave or a skirting board along
the floor you could do it in this very way if you wanted to especially those really ornate ones.
Okay.
So now we covered converting it's time for your challenge.
So a nice and straightforward challenge for you convert your pin profile to a mesh object.
And please remember to keep the original curve object as well in this case pause the video now and give
that a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and convert our pin curve to a mesh object.
OK everybody welcome back.
So I'm going to hide everything from my scene that I need just to keep things lovely and clean, I'm going
to select my pin profile I'm going to use the outline to select things and then I'm going to go to object
and convert it to a mesh.
I'm going to remember to come in here and keep the original.
Now what the original means if we're keeping it let's say we wanted to create a couple of different
pins while having the original there to refer back to is much much better than having to modify mesh
data.
You've seen how easy it is to tweak the shape just, by just pulling those handles about and that gives
us the option to do that.
However I don't want to see it.
I just want it out of the way.
Now I'm going to open up the object data properties we've got pin profile and pin profiles 0 0 1.
I want to call this pin profile curve.
I want to be explicit as to what it is.
Obviously we can see it there so perhaps curve isn't the right one perhaps original would be a better
name.
Now it is absolutely fine if you go through and you find yourself renaming things as you progress
through the course.
That's fine it gets it neat and in your head as to what is going on.
So this is the original this is the derived one the mesh data that we've got from it.
I want that one selected and I only want that in my viewport so it's nice and simple, brilliant.
Excellent.
So that's all done and ready to go.
It won't be long now before we start actually seeing our pin coming to life.
And that will be over in the next lecture.
See you there!